[Event Hubs] Azure.Messaging.EventHubs Mocking Samples (#31012)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/samples/Sample11_MockingClientTypes.md

# Mocking Client Types
Event Hubs is built to be entirely mockable. This is an important feature of the library that allows developers to write tests that are completely focused on their own application logic, even if they are dependent on the Event Hubs types.

The following snippets demonstrate how to mock each client type and relevant data types. 

Another important focus of this document is guidance on abstracting . The Event Hubs library has an extensive test suite that verifies all types, clients, and methods work as specified. Each scenario also discusses how to leverage these guarantees provided by our library so that tests can just focus on what an application has layered on top.

> ## Mocking `EventDataBatch`, `EventData`, and `EventHubProducerClient`

Author: Yes I wasn't sure which would be more helpful

The mocked `EventHubProducerClient` can be used to verify that `SendAsync` was called. The sample below is not a complete test. It can be customized to call an application-defined method that contains a call to `SendAsync`, and the arguments to `Verify` can be adjusted to match the expected outcome.

```C# Snippet:EventHubs_Sample11_MockingEventDataBatch
var mockProducer = new Mock<EventHubProducerClient>();

var createBatchOptions = new CreateBatchOptions() { MaximumSizeInBytes = 516 };
var batchSizeInBytes = 500;

// Setting up a mock of the CreateBatchAsync method
mockProducer.Setup(p => p.CreateBatchAsync(
    It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .ReturnsAsync(
    EventHubsModelFactory.EventDataBatch(
        46,
        new List<EventData>(),
        new CreateBatchOptions() { },
        // The model factory allows the user to define a custom TryAdd callback, making
        // it easy to test specific scenarios
        eventData =>
        {
            return eventData.Body.Length > createBatchOptions.MaximumSizeInBytes - batchSizeInBytes;
        }));

// Mocking the SendAsync method so that it will always pass
mockProducer.Setup(p => p.SendAsync(

>     It.IsAny<EventDataBatch>(),

Author: My thought with this scenario is that it would be a template for testing some application defined method that called `SendAsync` within it. 
Before simplifying the scenario, I called a sample method that contained a `SendAsync` call and then the test tested that it was called once. I'm assuming that people won't be calling `SendAsync` directly in their test method and instead calling some application defined method, but I can just add a call to send here for illustrative purposes.

    It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .Returns(Task.CompletedTask);

var producer = mockProducer.Object;

// Mocking EventData instances for send
var eventDataBody = new BinaryData("Sample large event body");
var eventData = EventHubsModelFactory.EventData(eventDataBody);

// Using the mocked event producer to test that SendAsync was never called
mockProducer.Verify(bp =>

> bp.SendAsync(

Author: For the same reason why I just set up `SendAsync` to always pass I was intending this scenario to be a template for making sure `SendAsync` was called inside of some application-defined method, so my intent was to make this so the snippet could be copy and pasted, and then someone would just need to add their specific method calls and then check it was called however many times they expected depending on the scenario. But I see how this is confusing and will update.

// Create a list of events to receive from the PartitionReceiver
List<EventData> receivedEvents = new List<EventData>();

for (int i=0; i<10; i++)
{
    // Mocking an EventData instance, different arguments can simulate different potential
    // outputs from the broker
    EventData eventData = EventHubsModelFactory.EventData(
        eventBody: new BinaryData($"Sample-Event-{i}"),
        systemProperties: default,
        partitionKey: "0",
        sequenceNumber: default,
        offset: default,
        enqueuedTime: default);

    receivedEvents.Add(eventData);
}

// Setup the mock to receive the mocked data batch when ReceiveBatchAsync is called
// on a given partition
mockReceiver
    .Setup(r => r.ReceiveBatchAsync(
        It.IsAny<int>(),
        It.IsAny<TimeSpan>(),
        It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .ReturnsAsync(receivedEvents);

PartitionReceiver receiver = mockReceiver.Object;

using CancellationTokenSource cancellationTokenSource = new CancellationTokenSource();

IEnumerable<EventData> receivedBatch = await receiver.ReceiveBatchAsync(
    maximumEventCount: 10,
    TimeSpan.FromSeconds(1),
    cancellationTokenSource.Token);
```

> ## Mocking a custom event processor using `EventProcessor<Partition>` 

Reviewer: This will be an interesting one that we may (or may not) want to include; if developers are rolling their own processor, I think we can assume that they're proficient with testing.   This sample gives them the tools for figuring out how to mock events and other internalized data types that they'd need to test.

That said, I think we should include one of these for the Event Processor Client that:

1) Tells people that they should only test their own handler code by calling it directly
2) Shows off the model factory + Event Data + calling a handler
3) Links back to this sample.

# Mocking Client Types

Event Hubs is built to support unit testing with mocks, as described in the [Azure SDK Design Guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html#dotnet-mocking). This is an important feature of the library that allows developers to write tests that are completely focused on their own application logic, though they depend on the Event Hubs types.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: nit:  Extra blank

> The examples that follow focus on scenarios likely to occur in applications, and demonstrate how to mock the Event Hubs types typically used in each scenario.

Reviewer: I really like this framing!

## Publishing Events with the `EventHubProducerClient`

> When using batches to publish to Event Hubs, the key interactions with the `EventHubProducerClient` are calling `CreateBatchAsync` to create the batch and `SendAsync` to publish it.   Mocked batches accept a `List<EventData>` that is used as a backing store and can be inspected to verify that the application is adding events to the batch as expected.  The custom `TryAdd` callback can be used to control the decision for whether an event is accepted into the batch or is rejected.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using batches to publish to Event Hubs, the key interactions with the `EventHubProducerClient` are calling `CreateBatchAsync` to create the batch and `SendAsync` to publish it. 
 Mocked batches accept a `List<EventData>` that is used as a backing store and can be inspected to verify that the application is adding events to the batch as expected.  The custom `TryAdd` callback can be used to control the decision for whether an event is accepted into the batch or is rejected.   
```

> This snippet demonstrates mocking the `EventHubProducerClient` using Moq, and creating `EventDataBatch` instances using the `EventHubsModelFactory`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This snippet demonstrates mocking the `EventHubProducerClient` using Moq and creating `EventDataBatch` instances using the `EventHubsModelFactory`.
```

Reviewer: Should we consider linking out to Moq?  I'm on the fence - we don't want to be perceived as endorsing it, but it may confuse people not familiar.   Thoughts?

Author: I can include something like "these samples demonstrate mocking using Moq, but many other tools exist that could be used in a similar way" in the intro with a link to it

Reviewer: Sounds great!

```C# Snippet:EventHubs_Sample11_MockingEventDataBatch
var mockProducer = new Mock<EventHubProducerClient>();

// This sets the value returned by the EventDataBatch when accessing the Size property

> // It does not impact TryAdd on the mocked batch

Reviewer: Perfect!

> var batchSizeInBytes = 500;

Reviewer: nit: For samples, we generally try to avoid `var` unless we're doing a `new` call where the type is explicit.  We'll want to do a sweep and hit the assignments across the sample.

> // Events added to the batch will be added here, but altering the events in this list will not change the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Events added to the batch will be added to this list.  Be aware that but altering the events in the list will also change the batch.
```

Reviewer: The list is used as the only source and we don't serialize to AMQP eagerly - so list changes reflect in the batch.   _([src](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/eventhub/Azure.Messaging.EventHubs/src/EventHubsModelFactory.cs#L317))_

> // events in the batch, since they are stored inside the batch as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

var backingList = new List<EventData>();

// For illustrative purposes allow the batch to hold 3 events before
// returning false.
var batchCountThreshold = 3;

var dataBatchMock = EventHubsModelFactory.EventDataBatch(
        batchSizeBytes : batchSizeInBytes,
        batchEventStore : backingList,
        batchOptions : new CreateBatchOptions() { },
        // The model factory allows the user to define a custom TryAdd callback, making
        // it easy to test specific scenarios
        eventData =>
        {

>             var numElements = backingList.Count();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            int eventCount = backingList.Count();
```

            return numElements < batchCountThreshold;
        });

// Setting up a mock of the CreateBatchAsync method

> mockProducer.Setup(p => p.CreateBatchAsync(
>     It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
>     .ReturnsAsync(dataBatchMock);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mockProducer
    .Setup(p => p.CreateBatchAsync(It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .ReturnsAsync(dataBatchMock);
```

Some folks struggle with the concept of method chaining.   If we keep the chained calls at the same indentation level, it can often help readability.

// Mocking the SendAsync method so that it will throw an exception if the batch passed into send is
// not the one we are expecting to send

> mockProducer.Setup(p => p.SendAsync(
>     It.Is<EventDataBatch>(sendBatch => sendBatch != dataBatchMock),
>     It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
>     .Throws(new Exception("The batch published was not the expected batch."));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mockProducer
    .Setup(p => p.SendAsync(
        It.Is<EventDataBatch>(sendBatch => sendBatch != dataBatchMock),
        It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .Throws(new Exception("The batch published was not the expected batch."));
```

if we can, let's try to keep "Setup" and "Throws" at the same level of indentation to make clear that we're chaining calls.

var producer = mockProducer.Object;

// Attempting to add events to the batch
var batch = await producer.CreateBatchAsync();
var eventList = new List<EventData>();

for (int i=0; i<4; i++)
{
    var eventData = new EventData(eventBody: new BinaryData($"Sample-Event-{i}"));
    if (batch.TryAdd(eventData))
    {
        // Track all of the events that were successfully added to the batch
        eventList.Add(eventData);
    }
}

// Illustrating the use of the try add callback
var eventData4 = new EventData(eventBody: new BinaryData("Sample-Event-4-will-fail"));
Assert.IsFalse(batch.TryAdd(eventData4));

// Call SendAsync
await producer.SendAsync(batch);

// Using the mocked event producer to test that SendAsync was called once

> mockProducer.Verify(bp =>
> bp.SendAsync(
>     It.IsAny<EventDataBatch>(),
>     It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()),Times.Once);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mockProducer
    .Verify(bp => bp.SendAsync(
        It.IsAny<EventDataBatch>(),
        It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()),
    Times.Once);
```

This snippet demonstrates mocking the `EventHubProducerClient` using Moq, and creating `EventDataBatch` instances using the `EventHubsModelFactory`.

```C# Snippet:EventHubs_Sample11_MockingEventDataBatch
Mock<EventHubProducerClient> mockProducer = new Mock<EventHubProducerClient>();

// This sets the value returned by the EventDataBatch when accessing the Size property
// It does not impact TryAdd on the mocked batch
long batchSizeInBytes = 500;

// Events added to the batch will be added to this list.  Be aware that but altering the events in the list will also change the batch.
List<EventData> backingList = new List<EventData>();

// For illustrative purposes allow the batch to hold 3 events before
// returning false.
int batchCountThreshold = 3;

EventDataBatch dataBatchMock = EventHubsModelFactory.EventDataBatch(
        batchSizeBytes : batchSizeInBytes,
        batchEventStore : backingList,
        batchOptions : new CreateBatchOptions() { },
        // The model factory allows the user to define a custom TryAdd callback, making
        // it easy to test specific scenarios
        eventData =>
        {

>             int eventCount = backingList.Count();

Reviewer: This one still applies.  😄

        It.IsAny<EventDataBatch>(),
        It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()),Times.Once);

// Verify that the events in the batch match what the application expects
foreach (EventData eventData in backingList)
{
    Assert.IsTrue(eventList.Contains(eventData));
}
Assert.AreEqual(backingList.Count, eventList.Count);
```

## Mocking access to the properties of an `EventHubProducerClient`

Many applications make decisions for publishing based on the properties of the Event Hub itself or the properties of its partitions. Both can be mocked using the `EventHubsModelFactory`. The following example demonstrates how to mock an `EventHubProducerClient` that is publishing to an Event Hub with a set of two partitions with different ownership levels.

```C# Snippet:EventHubs_Sample11_MockingEventHubProperties
// Create a mock of the EventHubProducerClient
Mock<EventHubProducerClient> mockProducer = new Mock<EventHubProducerClient>();

// Define the set of partitions and publishing properties to use for testing
Dictionary<string, PartitionPublishingProperties> partitions = new Dictionary<string, PartitionPublishingProperties>()
{
    // Partition with PartitionId 0

>     { "0", EventHubsModelFactory.PartitionPublishingProperties(

Author: I can take it out, it was just listed as one of the key types on issue https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/issues/7382

    lastSequenceNumber : default,
    lastOffset : default,
    lastEnqueuedTime : default,
    lastReceivedTime : default);

// Create a mock of PartitionContext using the model factory
var partitionContext = EventHubsModelFactory.PartitionContext(
    partitionId : "0",
    lastEnqueuedEventProperties : lastEnqueueEventProperties);

// Mock an EventData instance, different arguments can simulate different potential
// outputs from the broker
var eventData = EventHubsModelFactory.EventData(
    eventBody : new BinaryData("Sample-Event"),
    systemProperties : default,
    partitionKey : default,
    sequenceNumber : default,
    offset : default,
    enqueuedTime : default);

// Create a mock of a partition event
var samplePartitionEvent = new PartitionEvent(partitionContext, eventData);
var partitionEventList = new List<PartitionEvent>(new PartitionEvent[] { samplePartitionEvent });

// Define a simple local method that returns an IAsyncEnumerable to use as the return for
// ReadEventsAsync below
async IAsyncEnumerable<PartitionEvent> mockReturn(PartitionEvent samplePartitionEvent)
{
    await Task.CompletedTask;
    yield return samplePartitionEvent;

> }

Author: It gives me a build error if it's not async: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-messages/cs8403?f1url=%3FappId%3Droslyn%26k%3Dk(CS8403)

// Use this PartitionEvent to mock a return from the consumer, because ReadEvents returns an IAsyncEnumerable a separate
// method is needed to properly set up this method
mockConsumer.Setup(
    c => c.ReadEventsAsync(
    It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .Returns(mockReturn(samplePartitionEvent));

var consumer = mockConsumer.Object;
```

## Mocking `PartitionReceiver`

The sample below illustrates how to mock a `PartitionReceiver`, and set up its `ReceiveBatchAsync` method to return an empty batch. Mocked partition receivers can be set up for more complex scenarios using `SetUp(...).CallBack(...)` as well.

```C# Snippet:EventHubs_Sample11_PartitionReceiverMock
// Create a mock of the PartitionReceiver
var mockReceiver = new Mock<PartitionReceiver>();

// This sets the value returned by the EventDataBatch when accessing the Size property
// It does not impact TryAdd on the mocked batch
var batchSizeInBytes = 500;

// Events added to the batch will be added here, but altering the events in this list will not change the
// events in the batch, since they are stored inside the batch as well
var backingList = new List<EventData>();

> var maximumEventCount = 10;

Reviewer: This gets used way too far away from the declaration.  I don't think we need the separate variable here, since you've chosen to use named parameters when passing them (which is a great idea)

# Mocking Client Types

Event Hubs is built to support unit testing with mocks, as described in the [Azure SDK Design Guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html#dotnet-mocking). This is an important feature of the library that allows developers to write tests that are completely focused on their own application logic, though they depend on the Event Hubs types.

The following examples focus on scenarios likely to occur in applications, and demonstrate how to mock the Event Hubs types typically used in each scenario. The code snippets utilize the mock object framework, Moq, in order to provide practical examples. However, many mocking frameworks exist and can be used with the same approach in mind.

> ## Reading Event Hub metadata with an `EventHubProducerClient` or `EventHubBufferedProducerClient`

Reviewer: I'd suggest we move this after the "publishing" scenario for both.   More folks are going to be looking for those, I suspect.

Many applications make decisions for publishing based on the properties of the Event Hub itself or the properties of its partitions. Both can be mocked using the `EventHubsModelFactory`. The following snippet demonstrates how to mock Event Hub properties for both the `EventHubBufferedProducerClient` and the `EventHubProducerClient`, and how to set up the mocked producer clients to return a cohesive set of values for each of the accompanying getter methods.

These mocked properties can be used to test expected application behavior given a specific set of Event Hub properties. These property types can be mocked in the same way for the `EventHubConsumerClient`.

> ```C# Snippet:EventHubs_Sample11_MockingProducerProperties

Reviewer: Looking at this comment, I agree!  I'd suggest putting one Mocking Properties section after the Producer/BufferedProducer,Consumer sections.    Leave the PartitionReceiver for last.

Assert.IsFalse(batch.TryAdd(eventData4));

// For illustrative purposes we are calling SendAsync. This call would likely already be inside the
// application-defined method being tested.

await producer.SendAsync(batch);

// This is demonstrating how to verify SendAsync was called once within the mocked producer client.

mockProducer
    .Verify(bp => bp.SendAsync(
        It.IsAny<EventDataBatch>(),
        It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()),
    Times.Once);

// For illustrative purposes, check that the events in the batch match what the application expects to have
// added.

foreach (EventData eventData in backingList)
{
    Assert.IsTrue(sourceEvents.Contains(eventData));
}
Assert.AreEqual(backingList.Count, sourceEvents.Count);
```

## Publishing events using an `EventHubBufferedProducerClient`

The following snippet demonstrates how to mock the `EventHubBufferedProducerClient`. When using the buffered producer to publish events the  key interactions are calls to `EnqueueEventAsync` and/or `EnqueueEventsAsync`. Since the buffered producer implictly batches events passed in, mocking these calls is relatively straightforward.

> This snippet also demonstrates testing a send event failed handler. It is guaranteed by the library that the event handlers registered by the application will be called at the appropriate times. So fail and success handlers can be called and validated directly when testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This snippet also demonstrates testing a send event failed handler. It is guaranteed by the library that the event handlers will be called at the appropriate times while the processor is running; it is recommended that handers be tested by calling them directly, rather than attempting to simulate having the buffered producer invoke them.
```

int numOfEventsToEnqueue = 15;
CancellationTokenSource cancellationTokenSource = new();

for (int index = 0; index < numOfEventsToEnqueue; index++)
{
    EventData eventToEnqueue = new(index.ToString());
    await bufferedProducer.EnqueueEventAsync(eventToEnqueue, cancellationTokenSource.Token);
}

// This shows how to verify that EnqueueEventAsync was called the correct number of times,
// with the expected arguments.

for (int index = 0; index < numOfEventsToEnqueue; index++)
{
    bufferedProducerMock
        .Verify(bp => bp.EnqueueEventAsync(
            It.Is<EventData>(e => (e.EventBody.ToString().Equals(index.ToString()))), // Check that enqueue was called on each expected event body
            It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()));
}

// The following lines demonstrate how to test a fail handler by calling it directly. Testing fail and success handlers
// does not require mocking.

int numEventsInBatch = 12;
List<EventData> eventsInBatch = new();

for (int index = 0; index < numEventsInBatch; index++)
{
    EventData eventToEnqueue = new(index.ToString());
    await bufferedProducer.EnqueueEventAsync(eventToEnqueue, cancellationTokenSource.Token);
}

> SendEventBatchFailedEventArgs args = new SendEventBatchFailedEventArgs(eventsInBatch, new Exception(), "0", default);
> 
> Assert.DoesNotThrowAsync(async () => await sendFailed(args));
> 
> // The expected outcome of any application-specific complex processing can be asserted here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SendEventBatchFailedEventArgs args = new SendEventBatchFailedEventArgs(eventsInBatch, new Exception(), "0", default);

// The expected outcome of any application-specific complex processing can be asserted here.

Assert.DoesNotThrowAsync(async () => await sendFailed(args));
```

```

> ## Consuming events and reading properties from an `EventHubConsumerClient`

Reviewer: Can we split the "read" and "get properties" into two different snippets to simply and keep a tighter focus?

{
    for (int index = 0; index < 3; index++)
    {
        // This mocks an EventData instance using the model factory. Different arguments can mock different
        // potential outputs from the broker.

        EventData eventData = EventHubsModelFactory.EventData(
            eventBody: new BinaryData($"Sample-Event-{ index }"),
            systemProperties: new Dictionary<string, object>(), //arbitrary value
            partitionKey: "sample-key",
            sequenceNumber: 1000,
            offset: 1500,
            enqueuedTime: DateTimeOffset.Parse("11:36 PM"));

        // This creates a mock PartitionEvent to return from the consumer client.

        PartitionEvent samplePartitionEvent = new PartitionEvent(partitionContext, eventData);
        List<PartitionEvent> partitionEventList = new List<PartitionEvent> { samplePartitionEvent };

        // IAsyncEnumerable types can only be returned by async functions, use this no-op await statement to
        // force the method to be async.

        await Task.Yield();

        // Yield statements allow methods to emit multiple outputs. In async methods this can be over time.

>         yield return samplePartitionEvent;

Reviewer: It would be helpful to yield multiple events; there's often confusion about `yield return` being similar to `return` in that "you can only use one".

EventPosition startingPosition = EventPosition.Earliest;

await foreach (PartitionEvent receivedEvent in consumer.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync(firstPartition, startingPosition, options, cancellationTokenSource.Token))
{
    // This could be where application code is handling partition events.
}

// This is where applications can verify that the partition events output by the consumer client were handled as expected.
```

## Receiving Batches using the `PartitionReceiver`

The sample below illustrates how to mock a `PartitionReceiver`, and set up its `ReceiveBatchAsync` method to return a simple data batch. 

Given the purpose of the `PartitionReceiver`, it is anticipated that most applications will have complex code surrounding their receivers, so this snippet is intentionally simple, with the focus being on using the `EventHubsModelFactory` to mock events being returned from the broker.

```C# Snippet:EventHubs_Sample11_PartitionReceiverMock
Mock<PartitionReceiver> mockReceiver = new();

// ReceivedEvents is a list of events to use when mocking ReceiveBatchAsync within the PartitionReceiver.

List<EventData> receivedEvents = new();

> for (int i=0; i<10; i++)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
```

// with the expected arguments.

for (int index = 0; index < numOfEventsToEnqueue; index++)
{
    bufferedProducerMock
        .Verify(bp => bp.EnqueueEventAsync(
            It.Is<EventData>(e => (e.EventBody.ToString().Equals(index.ToString()))), // Check that enqueue was called on each expected event body
            It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()));
}

// The following lines demonstrate how to test a fail handler by calling it directly. Testing fail and success handlers
// does not require mocking.

int numEventsInBatch = 12;
List<EventData> eventsInBatch = new();

for (int index = 0; index < numEventsInBatch; index++)
{
    EventData eventToEnqueue = new(index.ToString());
    await bufferedProducer.EnqueueEventAsync(eventToEnqueue, cancellationTokenSource.Token);
}

SendEventBatchFailedEventArgs args = new SendEventBatchFailedEventArgs(eventsInBatch, new Exception(), "0", default);

// The expected outcome of any application-specific complex processing can be asserted here.

Assert.DoesNotThrowAsync(async () => await sendFailed(args));
```

## Consuming events using an `EventHubConsumerClient`

> When testing code that is dependent on the `EventHubConsumerClient`, a developer may want to create a known set of expected events and contexts to verify that their application consumes them correctly.  Tests can mock `EventData` instances coming from the broker using the `EventHubModelFactory`. These can be used within the consumer client mock to mock returns from `ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync`, which for most applications is the key interaction to test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When testing code that is dependent on the `EventHubConsumerClient`, a developer may want to create a known set of expected events to verify that their application consumes them correctly.  Tests can mock `EventData` instances coming from the broker using the `EventHubModelFactory`. These can be used within the consumer client mock to mock returns from `ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync`, which for most applications is the key interaction to test.
```

I think the context is incidental here, the events are the stuff everyone wants.

// ReadEventsAsync below, since IAsyncEnumerables cannot be created directly.

async IAsyncEnumerable<PartitionEvent> mockReturn()
{
    // This mocks an EventData instance using the model factory. Different arguments can mock different
    // potential outputs from the broker.

    EventData eventData1 = EventHubsModelFactory.EventData(
        eventBody: new BinaryData($"Sample-Event-1"),
        systemProperties: new Dictionary<string, object>(), //arbitrary value
        partitionKey: "sample-key",
        sequenceNumber: 1000,
        offset: 1500,
        enqueuedTime: DateTimeOffset.Parse("11:36 PM"));

    EventData eventData2 = EventHubsModelFactory.EventData(
        eventBody: new BinaryData($"Sample-Event-2"),
        systemProperties: new Dictionary<string, object>(), //arbitrary value
        partitionKey: "sample-key",
        sequenceNumber: 1000,
        offset: 1500,
        enqueuedTime: DateTimeOffset.Parse("11:36 PM"));

    // This creates a mock PartitionEvent to return from the consumer client.

    PartitionEvent samplePartitionEvent1 = new(partitionContext, eventData1);
    PartitionEvent samplePartitionEvent2 = new(partitionContext, eventData2);

>     // IAsyncEnumerable types can only be returned by async functions, use this no-op await statement to

Reviewer: nice... this is helpful!

// used in conjunction with ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync, it may be useful for applications to mock both.

string[] consumerPartitions = new string[] { "0", "1" };

mockConsumer
    .Setup(p => p.GetPartitionIdsAsync(It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .ReturnsAsync(consumerPartitions);

// The following demonstrates how to use the mocked methods. This would be where application methods
// can be called and tested.

EventHubConsumerClient consumer = mockConsumer.Object;

using CancellationTokenSource cancellationTokenSource = new();

// Here we are setting the TrackLastEnqueuedEventProperties flag so that the EventHubConsumerClient receives
// LastEnqueuedEventProperties when reading events.

ReadEventOptions options = new()
{
    TrackLastEnqueuedEventProperties = true
};

string firstPartition = (await consumer.GetPartitionIdsAsync(cancellationTokenSource.Token)).First();
EventPosition startingPosition = EventPosition.Earliest;

await foreach (PartitionEvent receivedEvent in consumer.ReadEventsFromPartitionAsync(firstPartition, startingPosition, options, cancellationTokenSource.Token))
{

>     // This could be where application code is handling partition events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // This is where application logic has control of the partition events.
```

    { "1", EventHubsModelFactory.PartitionProperties(
        eventHubName : "eventhub-name",
        partitionId : "1",
        isEmpty : false,
        beginningSequenceNumber : 2000,
        lastSequenceNumber : 2000,
        lastOffset : 760,
        lastEnqueuedTime : DateTime.UtcNow) }
};

// This sets up GetPartitionIdsAsync to return the set of partition Ids mocked above.

bufferedProducerMock
    .Setup(p => p.GetPartitionIdsAsync(It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .ReturnsAsync(partitionProperties.Keys.ToArray());

// This sets up GetPartitionPropertiesAsync to return the mocked PartitionProperties for each partition Id input.

foreach (KeyValuePair<string, PartitionProperties> partition in partitionProperties)
{
    bufferedProducerMock
        .Setup(p => p.GetPartitionPropertiesAsync(
            partition.Key,
            It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
        .ReturnsAsync(partition.Value);
}

// The next lines demonstrate how to use the mocked partition Ids and PartitionProperties. This would be
// where application code utilizing the mocked methods could be called and verified.

EventHubBufferedProducerClient bufferedProducer = bufferedProducerMock.Object;

> CancellationTokenSource cancellationTokenSource = new();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using CancellationTokenSource cancellationTokenSource = new();
```

// This gets all the partition Ids and arbitrarily takes the first partition Id.

string[] partitionIds = await bufferedProducer.GetPartitionIdsAsync(cancellationTokenSource.Token);
string partitionId = partitionIds[0];

// This gets the partition properties for the first partition Id.

PartitionProperties firstPartitionProperties =
    await bufferedProducer.GetPartitionPropertiesAsync(partitionId, cancellationTokenSource.Token);

string isPartitionEmpty = firstPartitionProperties.IsEmpty.ToString();

> Debug.WriteLine($"Sending Events to: {isPartitionEmpty}");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Mocking Client Types

Event Hubs is built to support unit testing with mocks, as described in the [Azure SDK Design Guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html#dotnet-mocking). This is an important feature of the library that allows developers to write tests that are completely focused on their own application logic, though they depend on the Event Hubs types.

The examples that follow focus on scenarios likely to occur in applications, and demonstrate how to mock the Event Hubs types typically used in each scenario.

> ## Publishing Events with the `EventHubProducerClient`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Publishing events with the `EventHubProducerClient`
```

nit: We've been asked to keep to sentence-style capitalization in our Markdown headings to conform to the [Microsoft Style Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization#sentence-style-capitalization-in-titles-and-headings).

long batchSizeInBytes = 500;

// Events added to the batch will be added here, but altering the events in this list will not change the
// events in the batch, since they are stored inside the batch as well.

List<EventData> backingList = new();

// For illustrative purposes, this is the number of events that the batch will contain,
// returning false from TryAdd for any additional calls.

int batchCountThreshold = 3;

EventDataBatch dataBatchMock = EventHubsModelFactory.EventDataBatch(
        batchSizeBytes : batchSizeInBytes,
        batchEventStore : backingList,
        batchOptions : new CreateBatchOptions(),
        // The model factory allows the user to define a custom TryAdd callback, allowing
        // control of what events the batch accepts.
        eventData =>
        {
            int eventCount = backingList.Count();
            return eventCount < batchCountThreshold;
        });

// This sets up a mock of the CreateBatchAsync method.

mockProducer
    .Setup(p => p.CreateBatchAsync(It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .ReturnsAsync(dataBatchMock);

// Here we are mocking the SendAsync method so that it will throw an exception if the batch passed

> // into send is not the one we are expecting to send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// into it is not the one we are expecting to send.
```

mockProducer
    .Setup(p => p.SendAsync(
        It.Is<EventDataBatch>(sendBatch => sendBatch != dataBatchMock),
        It.IsAny<CancellationToken>()))
    .Throws(new Exception("The batch published was not the expected batch."));

EventHubProducerClient producer = mockProducer.Object;

EventDataBatch batch = await producer.CreateBatchAsync();

> // Next we are creating a list of events to use in our test.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should consider saying something like "this is exactly the same as how you'd send events in your actual application" - or do you think that's already obvious?

List<EventData> sourceEvents = new();

for (int index = 0; index < batchCountThreshold; index++)
{
    var eventData = new EventData($"Sample-Event-{ index }");
    sourceEvents.Add(eventData);
}

// Here we are adding events to the batch. They should all be accepted.

foreach (var eventData in sourceEvents)
{
    Assert.True(batch.TryAdd(eventData));
}

> EventData eventData4 = new EventData(eventBody: new BinaryData("Sample-Event-4-will-fail"));

Reviewer: We probably want a comment above this mentioning that since have `batchCountThreshold` events in there, the batch is considered full by the callback that we passed.   The next event should be rejected.
